Query language specification document 

1. Scope:
	- This query language is modeled after the AIQL query language to facilitate enterprise security investigations. The query language was built with the goal of allowing analysts to specify behaviors relevant to APT attack vectors, namely, multi-step attacks, dependency attacks, and abnormal system behaviors. The language allows for explicit queries pertaining to spacial/temporal constraints, event chaining, aggregate/historical events, and specifications of relationships between events. The rules of the language are defined by a custom grammar programmed with ANTLR4. 

2. Terms and definitions

	Multi-event query- For multi-event queries, there are explicit language constructs for constraints, and relationships between system events. 

	Dependency query- There are chaining constraints that specify temporal relationships. Keywords: forward and backward are used to specify a sequence of events.
		
		forward - means the event found at the left-most event pattern occurred the earliest

		backward - means the even found at the left-most event pattern occurred the latest 

	Event pattern - specifies an event pattern rule that consists of the subject/object entities and an operation 

	Global constraint - constraints for all events (i.e., logonid, window as defined below)

	Event relationship - specifies how multiple events are related 

	Attribute relationship - uses attribute values of event patterns to specify a relationship 

	Time window - specified window of time that temporally narrows down a search

	Attribute constraint - attribute constraints defined by logical operators 


3. Symbols and abbreviated terms 

	logonid - unique id of the enterprise host

	window - specify length of time window

	at - at a specified time 

	datetime - epoch time of an events

- Unique to host log data: 

	proc - processName

	evt - EventID

	user - username specific to unique users of the system; represented as UserName & LogHost in logs 

	procid - process ID

	type - logonType

- Unique to network log data: 
	
	ip - IP address (NOTE: these have been anonymized so do not resemble actual IP addresses)

	proto - protocol

	portsrc - source port

	portdest - destination port

	srcpacket - number of packets sent from source 

	destpacket - number of packets recevied at destination 

	for - to specify a length of time of a connection (duration in the logs)

4. Event IDS

	- For our purposes, we focus on the following specified events in the format <EventID> -- <Description> -> <keyword to be used in query>: 

	1. 4625 -- an account failed to logon -> fail

	2. 4648 -- a logon was attempted using explicit credentials  -> explicit

	3. 4672 -- special priviledges assigned to a new logon -> priv

	4. 4688 -- process start -> execute

	5. 1100 -- event logging service was shut down -> shutdown 

	- The following keyword is to be used for network logs only:

	6. connect



